---
title = "Markdown in Obama Solutions"
description = "An overview on how the deployment of Markdown-written pages works in obama.solutions"
author = "Nicole Aoki"
---

**I'm still working on this! Please wait and do NOT compile this page until I write "That's all from me, cheers" at the end of the article, if you accidentally compile this, just delete the thing from my directory, thank you.**

---

# Markdown in Obama Solutions

​	We all love Markdown, that markdown (haha) language/standard used for so many things nowadays that it is something that most of us don't really think about too much anymore, specially these days where all that Markdown is used for everything from plain README files in Git repositories, to complete websites of all sizes and types. Want to make a blog or portfolio? Use Markdown with Hugo or Jekyll; Want to make some docs for this cool project you're making? Use (idk the name of the thing I'm writting this offline), and so on.

​	With that in mind, it's clear to see how Markdown so important for writing nowadays, specially with extensions like R Markdown, used for graphs and study papers, or [MDX](https://mdxjs.org), a direct extension of Markdown for frameworks like Astro adding functionality to Markdown like types. And even just some plugins for your favourite static site generator.

​	And just for that do we come to the reason of this article's existence, static site generators (SSGs). The thing that turns your `.md` file into an actual set of files (typically `.html` or `.jsx`) that can be read by your *debil* eyes in a browser and stuff. Since the dawn of Markdown as a standard for writing things and deploying them in something that isn't a plain text editor, most people have just used Jekyll or Hugo (and now 11ty), both highly-extensible SSGs used for lot of things; and by a lot of people. But of course, these offers aren't the only ones, some people may not like how bloated Hugo is, or how Jekyll is written in Japanese Python (Ruby). Due to this, a lot of developers have created their own SSGs that tackle areas like performance, size, extendablity, design, etc. And this is where our tale of picking an SSG begins.

​	Picking an SSG should be fairly easy to do, just think of what your project needs (ie, speed) and what your current infrastructure is. The issue is that we're kinda retarded... -- Most people would just pick whatever everyone uses, read some docs, develop accordingly and deploy at 3am, simple as that. But here at [Obama Solutions](https://obama.solutions) we didn't really like this approach, we wanted to use the simplest yet most retarded thing we could find, at the end we don't really care about how our websites are made, as long as you can see what we're making in Internet Explorer 7, we're happy. So because of this, we started a little journey of finding a SSG that would fit our needs of being lightweight and portable enough to be ran in a DEC Alpha running Apache 2, yet simple enough for our small Estrogenized brains to comprehend and deploy by running a shell script.

​	Due to this, we came back to a project of an old friend of ours, this being [*based-ssg*](https://github.com/alloca123/based-ssg) by our fellow Alloca, a simple C98 SSG with basic RSS support and stuff, all that it needed was a `template.html` file and a config file that I'm too retarded to write so I just made [@suborbitalrat](https://obama.solutions/~suborbitalrat) write it, but we soon encountered ourselves dealing some issues with *based-ssg* that we didn't really expect to begin with. First, Alloca's implementation of Markdown isn't even [Markdown-compatible](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/), we discovered this after we tried to make use of Markdown's `<>` tags, not the HTML ones; but the ones that make links clickable without using the classic `[]()`. This wasn't really a big deal but we didn't really feel like forking *based-ssg* and fixing that, and god knows what else is broken or just not implemented to begin with, so we just ditched it because at the end, we wanted to see what else we could use (perhaps something with plugins for codeblocks would be neat and stuff).

​	After this, we decided to find yet another SSG, after some searching on Github's crippled and extremely autistic search engine, we found [Bonsai](https://github.com/benschwarz/bonsai), a SSG written in Ruby that wasn't really an SSG to begin with but a whole hordeal of features packed into a package that has been abandoned for 8 years now... oh I didn't mention how Bonsai had it last commit in 2014?. At the end we tried to give it up for a spin and surprisingly found that it worked, but we're 100% sure that it has like 100 CVEs and that if we were going to deploy this in our server the thing would crash the moment we tried to deploy things so... yeah. While Bonsai is a really neat concept that I'd like for someone to take on with a more modern approach and with a language like Crystal (or just Python), we don't feel comfortable running 8 year old code that does *waaaaaaay* more than what we need it to, so to finish that micro review of sorts of Bonsai. I'd love for someone to fork it (perhaps call it Tree?) and maintain it, or just rewrite it on another language as mentioned before.

​	Now that we have that out of the way, I'd also like to give a shoutout to [Obelisk](https://github.com/BennyHallett/obelisk), a fucking SSG written in Elixir out of all languages, written by someone who hasn't logged into Github in over 6 years. Kinda weird that we found this to begin with but of course we tried to take if for a spin, and of course, it didn't work. We tried a lot of things to make it work but it just wouldn't work without shitting 100k errors and die. I guess that "Write Once, Debug Everywhere" also applies to Elixir... or maybe its just that we were trying to run 6 year old code in modern Elixir, who knows.

​	But of course, the SSG Bonanza doesn't end there! We found a little SSG written in Rust by the name of *BLADES* (no, @grego, I'm not explaining what Blades means), (waiting on @suborbital to deploy with blades so i can shit on it)
